Gorgeous Pistachio Panda

medium

# Use of Deprecated Chainlink Function `latestAnswer` in `Auditor::assetPrice`

## Summary
In the contract `Auditor.sol`, the `latestAnswer` function from Chainlink price feeds is used to obtain asset prices. However, this function is considered deprecated according to the [Chainlink documentation](https://docs.chain.link/data-feeds/api-reference#getbilling), and it is recommended to use `latestRoundData` instead.

## Vulnerability Detail 
Chainlink contracts are calling `latestAnswer` to retrieve asset prices. Since `latestAnswer` is deprecated, the freshness of the returned price should be verified, as it impacts an account's health and, consequently, liquidations. Stale prices that no longer reflect the current market price could be used, potentially influencing liquidation pricing. This method returns the last value, but it does not allow checking if the data is fresh. In contrast, calling `latestRoundData` enables additional validations. Stale prices can pose a risk. Additionally, according to Chainlink's documentation, this function does not error if no answer has been reached but returns 0, leading to an incorrect price being fed to the Price oracle. Moreover, `latestAnswer` is deprecated.

```javascript
  function assetPrice(IPriceFeed priceFeed) public view returns (uint256) {
    if (address(priceFeed) == BASE_FEED) return basePrice;

@>  int256 price = priceFeed.latestAnswer();
    if (price <= 0) revert InvalidPrice();
    return uint256(price) * baseFactor;
  }

```

## Impact 
`Auditor::assetPrice` calls `latestAnswer` to obtain the last asset price. This method returns the last value, but it does not allow verifying if the data is fresh. On the other hand, calling `latestRoundData` enables running extra validations.

## Code Snippet
[Link To Code](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-interest-rate-model/blob/main/protocol/contracts/Auditor.sol#L326)

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
Use `latestRoundData` instead of `latestAnswer` and, in addition to checking for a zero price, implement a check for the last updated timestamp.
```diff
  function assetPrice(IPriceFeed priceFeed) public view returns (uint256) {
    if (address(priceFeed) == BASE_FEED) return basePrice;

-   int256 price = priceFeed.latestAnswer();
+   (uint80 roundID, int256 price, , uint256 timeStamp, uint80 answeredInRound) = oracle.latestRoundData();
+   if (answerInRound >= roundID)   revert PriceFeedDataIsOld();
    if (price <= 0) revert InvalidPrice();
    return uint256(price) * baseFactor;
  }

```
