Clever Honeysuckle Corgi

medium

# Treasury fee computations may face truncated precision when updating inside the market

## Summary
Less accurate treasury fee and floating assets calculations due to the precision loss occur inside the `updateFloatingDebt()` function of the market.

## Vulnerability Detail
Solidity truncates the result of integer division, emphasizing the need to multiply before dividing to prevent precision loss. If division precedes multiplication, the final result risks significant precision loss, as the initial quotient undergoes truncation before being multiplied by another integer.

This issue surfaces in the `updateFloatingDebt()` section of the market, where the function updates the floating variables:

```Solidity
    ...
      uint256 newDebt = memFloatingDebt.mulWadDown(
        interestRateModel
          .floatingRate(utilization, globalUtilization(memFloatingAssets, memFloatingDebt, floatingBackupBorrowed))
          .mulDivDown(block.timestamp - lastFloatingDebtUpdate, 365 days)
      );

      memFloatingDebt += newDebt;
      treasuryFee = newDebt.mulWadDown(treasuryFeeRate); // Precision loss occurs here
      floatingAssets = memFloatingAssets + newDebt - treasuryFee;
    ...
    }
```
It's evident that there's a concealed division preceding the multiplication in the calculation of the `treasuryFee`, resulting in the truncation of the entire expression. 
This calculation entails multiplying `newDebt` by `treasuryFeeRate`. However, `newDebt` itself involves division by 365 days in seconds.

A more precise approach would involve postponing the division by 365 days until the final step, after all the multiplications. 
This issue is concerning because the resulting precision loss can be significant, leading to the pool computing a lower `treasuryFee` than the actual value. 

## Impact
Reduced treasury fee and floating assets due to precision loss.
## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-interest-rate-model/blob/main/protocol/contracts/Market.sol#L888-L904

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
To mitigate precision loss, consider revising the treasury fee calculation to prioritize multiplication before division.