Sticky Myrtle Griffin

medium

# `updateFloatingDebt()` isn't called during `withdrawAtMaturity()`, leading to incorrect accounting of floating interest

## Summary

`updateFloatingDebt()` isn't called during `withdrawAtMaturity()`, leading to incorrect accounting of floating interest

## Vulnerability Detail

`updateFloatingDebt()` calculates and updates the interest rate of floating debt since the last update.
This function has to be called every time any of the variables which affect the interest rate is called.
This is to ensure that the old interest rate is applied to the period before the change, otherwise the new interest rate would apply also to the period before the change.

One of the variables that affect interest rate is `floatingBackupBorrowed`, this one often changes at `withdrawAtMaturity()` but `updateFloatingDebt()` isn't being called at this function.
This means the new interest rate would apply to the period between `lastFloatingDebtUpdate` and the current timestamp. This would be the wrong interest rate for that period - higher than it should be.


## Impact

Incorrect accounting, the interest rate for floating debt would be higher than needed.

## Code Snippet


`floatingBackupBorrowed` is being updated at  `withdrawAtMaturity()`:
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-interest-rate-model/blob/main/protocol/contracts/Market.sol#L381-L389

`floatingBackupBorrowed` is used to calculate the floating debt interest rate:
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-interest-rate-model/blob/main/protocol/contracts/Market.sol#L892-L896


## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
Call `updateFloatingDebt()` before updating the variable, just like in other functions.