Witty Walnut Salmon

medium

# [M-9] `Auditor.sol` , `PriceFeedDouble.sol`, `PriceFeedWrapper.sol`, and `PriceFeedPool.sol` use Deprecated Chainlink Function `latestAnswer()` (Incorrect Data + Integrity Risk)

## Summary
The `Auditor.sol` , `PriceFeedDouble.sol`, `PriceFeedWrapper.sol`, and `PriceFeedPool.sol` files uses the `latestAnswer()` function from the `IPriceFeed` interface to retrieve the asset price. However, `latestAnswer()` is a deprecated Chainlink function that may return stale or incorrect data.

## Vulnerability Detail
 `Auditor.sol` :
```javascript
int256 price = priceFeed.latestAnswer();
if (price <= 0) revert InvalidPrice();
return uint256(price) * baseFactor;
```
`PriceFeedDouble.sol`:
```javascript
 function latestAnswer() external view returns (int256) {
    return int256(uint256(priceFeedOne.latestAnswer()).mulDivDown(uint256(priceFeedTwo.latestAnswer()), baseUnit));
  }
```

`PriceFeedWrapper.sol`:
```javascript 
function latestAnswer() external view returns (int256) {
    int256 mainPrice = mainPriceFeed.latestAnswer();

    (, bytes memory data) = address(wrapper).staticcall(abi.encodeWithSelector(conversionSelector, baseUnit));
    uint256 rate = abi.decode(data, (uint256));

    return int256(uint256(mainPrice).mulDivDown(rate, baseUnit));
  }
```

`PriceFeedPool.sol`:
```javascript
function latestAnswer() external view returns (int256) {
    int256 mainPrice = basePriceFeed.latestAnswer();
```

## Impact

Using the deprecated `latestAnswer()` function can potentially lead to the following issues:

Stale data: The price returned by `latestAnswer()` may not be the most up-to-date price, leading to inaccurate price calculations.
Incorrect data: In certain scenarios, `latestAnswer()` might return incorrect or invalid data, which can compromise the integrity of the smart contracts relying on this data.
Unreliable price feed: If the Chainlink oracle encounters issues or fails to update the price, `latestAnswer()` will continue to return the last known price, which may not reflect the current market conditions.

These issues can have significant consequences, such as incorrect liquidation triggers, mispricing of assets, and improper calculation of borrow/lend rates. The overall integrity and reliability of the protocol can be severely impacted.

## Code Snippet

 `Auditor.sol`:
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-interest-rate-model/blob/main/protocol/contracts/Auditor.sol?plain=1#L329

`PriceFeedDouble.sol`:
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-interest-rate-model/blob/main/protocol/contracts/PriceFeedDouble.sol?plain=1#L28

`PriceFeedWrapper.sol`:
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-interest-rate-model/blob/main/protocol/contracts/PriceFeedWrapper.sol?plain=1#L31

`PriceFeedPool.sol`:
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-interest-rate-model/blob/main/protocol/contracts/PriceFeedPool.sol?plain=1#L36

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
To address this vulnerability, it is recommended to update the code to use the latest Chainlink interface and the recommended functions. Instead of using `latestAnswer()`, the protocol should switch to the `latestRoundData()` function, which provides more reliable and up-to-date price data.

By using `latestRoundData()`, the protocol can ensure that the price data is valid, up-to-date, and not stale. Additionally, it includes checks for price validity, round completeness, and staleness.
