Uneven Chocolate Okapi

medium

# Discontinuity in liquidate() function's actualRepay calculation

## Summary

The `liquidate()` function in the `Market` contract contains a step abrupt change (i.e. mathematical discontinuity) in the calculation of `actualRepay`. This step change occurs when `maxAssets` equals `debt`, causing a sudden jump in the value of `actualRepay` from `position` to `maxAssets`.

## Vulnerability Detail

The line of code `actualRepay = debt > maxAssets ? maxAssets.mulDivDown(position, debt) : maxAssets;` is responsible for this discontinuity. When maxAssets is less than debt, actualRepay is calculated as `maxAssets.mulDivDown(position, debt)` which is linear increasing with the increase of `maxAssets`. However, when `maxAssets` slightly increases above `debt`, `actualRepay` suddenly becomes `maxAssets` jumping abruptly from `position`. This abrupt change can lead to unexpected behavior and potential vulnerabilities.

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-interest-rate-model/blob/main/protocol/contracts/Market.sol#L574

```solidity
} else {
            uint256 position;
            {
              FixedLib.Position storage p = fixedBorrowPositions[maturity][borrower];
              position = p.principal + p.fee;
            }
            uint256 debt = position + position.mulWadDown((block.timestamp - maturity) * penaltyRate);
            actualRepay = debt > maxAssets ? maxAssets.mulDivDown(position, debt) : maxAssets;
```

## Impact

This discontinuity can lead to unpredictable and potentially harmful behavior of the contract. It could result in incorrect repayments, leading to financial losses for users. Moreover, it could be exploited by malicious actors who could manipulate maxAssets and debt to their advantage.

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-interest-rate-model/blob/main/protocol/contracts/Market.sol#L574

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

It is recommended to smooth out this discontinuity to ensure a consistent and predictable behavior of the `liquidate()` function. One possible solution could be to use a mathematical function that provides a smooth transition between the two states. For example, a linear interpolation could be used to calculate actualRepay when maxAssets is close to debt. This would ensure a gradual change in the value of actualRepay rather than a sudden jump.
