Witty Walnut Salmon

medium

# [M-01] Frontrunning `Exa::initialize()` function can prevent upgrades and steal 10_000_000e18 tokens due to insufficient access control

## Summary
The `Exa::initialize()` function in the EXA contract, which is an ERC20VotesUpgradeable contract, initializes the EXA token by setting its name and symbol, as well as initializing the ERC20 permit and ERC20Votes extensions. It also mints 10 million tokens to the deployer. However, the function is not properly protected with an access control mechanism and does not prevent arbitrary users from initializing This means that a malicious user could front run the `initialize()` and mint/steal 10 million tokens for themselves.

## Vulnerability Detail
This is the function:
```javascript 
function initialize() external initializer {
    __ERC20_init("exactly", "EXA");
    __ERC20Permit_init("exactly");
    __ERC20Votes_init();
    _mint(msg.sender, 10_000_000e18);
  }
```

If an attacker sees this transaction in the mempool, they can frontrun the transaction with a higher gas pay and call the `initialize` function before the owner. This would be possible because the initialize function is not protected against frontrunning in the transaction ordering sense. The `initializer` modifier in Solidity is specifically designed to ensure that a function marked with it can only be invoked once during the contract's initialization phase. The `initializer` modifier does not provide access control functionality.

## Impact
An attacker could easily frontrun the `initialize()` function, mint themselves 10_000_000e18 tokens (which is stealing), and then the function would not be able to be called again due to the `initializer` modifier, leaving the protocol robbed & helpless.

## Code Snippet
The code with this vulnerability can be found here: https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-interest-rate-model/blob/main/protocol/contracts/periphery/EXA.sol?plain=1#L8-L14

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
Implement valid access control on the `initialize()` to ensure only the relevant deployer can initialize such as an `onlyOwner` modifier or automatically call `initialize` in your deploy function  in your setup.