Witty Walnut Salmon

medium

# [M-2] `MarketETHRouter::initialize` can be frontrun due to lack of access control, allowing attackers to set their own market address and mint themselves unlimited tokens

## Summary
The initialize function in the `MarketETHRouter` contract is vulnerable to frontrunning attacks due to lack of access control , allowing attackers to mint an unlimited number of tokens and causing severe financial loss
## Vulnerability Detail

```javascript 
function initialize() external initializer {
    weth.safeApprove(address(market), type(uint256).max);
  }
```
The code above can be found in `MarketETHRouter::initialize` and if exactly protocol deploys their contracts and does not identify that they have already been initialized, users could start using a system that was compromised from the start. This allows attackers to mint an unlimited number of tokens to themselves and cause severe financial loss for the entire protocol and all its users.

If an attacker sees this transaction in the mempool, they can frontrun the transaction with a higher gas pay and call the `initialize` function before the owner. This would be possible because the initialize function is not protected against frontrunning in the transaction ordering sense. The `initializer` modifier in Solidity is specifically designed to ensure that a function marked with it can only be invoked once during the contract's initialization phase. The `initializer` modifier does not provide access control functionality.

## Impact

The `MarketETHRouter` contract's `initialize` function is susceptible to frontrunning attacks because it lacks access control. As a result, attackers can exploit this vulnerability to mint an unlimited number of tokens, set their preferred market address, and potentially cause significant financial loss. Additionally, if the Exactly Protocol deploys their contracts without recognizing that they have already been initialized, users might unknowingly begin utilizing a system that was compromised from the beginning.

## Code Snippet

This vulnerability can be found here:
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-interest-rate-model/blob/main/protocol/contracts/MarketETHRouter.sol?plain=1#L38-L40

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
Implement valid access control on the `initialize()` to ensure only the relevant deployer can initialize such as an `onlyOwner` modifier or automatically call `initialize` in your deploy function  in your setup.