Witty Walnut Salmon

medium

# [M-3] `EscrowedExa::initialize` can be frontrun due to lack of access control, allowing attackers to grant themselves admin role and manipulate key parameters such as vesting periods and reserve ratio

## Summary

The initialize function in the ``EscrowedExa::initialize`` contract is vulnerable to frontrunning attacks due to lack of access control , allowing attackers to grant themselves admin control and manipulate key parameters such as vesting periods and reserve ratio with the power of an admin.

## Vulnerability Detail
```javascript 
function initialize(uint40 vestingPeriod_, uint256 reserveRatio_) external initializer {
    __ERC20_init("escrowed EXA", "esEXA");
    __ERC20Permit_init("escrowed EXA");
    __ERC20Votes_init();
    __AccessControl_init();

    _grantRole(DEFAULT_ADMIN_ROLE, msg.sender);
    /// @dev address(0) holds the TRANSFERRER_ROLE so the token can be minted or burnt.
    _grantRole(TRANSFERRER_ROLE, address(0));

    setVestingPeriod(vestingPeriod_);
    setReserveRatio(reserveRatio_);
    exa.safeApprove(address(sablier), type(uint256).max);
  }
```
The code above can be found in `ExcrowedExa::initialize` and if exactly protocol deploys their contracts and does not identify that they have already been initialized, users could start using a system that was compromised from the start. Attackers could grant themselves admin role, set vesting periods, and set reserve ratio.

If an attacker sees this transaction in the mempool, they can frontrun the transaction with a higher gas pay and call the `initialize` function before the owner. This would be possible because the `initialize` function is not protected against frontrunning in the transaction ordering sense. The `initializer` modifier in Solidity is specifically designed to ensure that a function marked with it can only be invoked once during the contract's initialization phase. The `initializer` modifier does not provide access control functionality.

## Impact

If attackers exploit this vulnerability by granting themselves admin roles, they gain unrestricted control over the system. They could manipulate key parameters such as vesting periods and reserve ratios, which could lead to unfair distribution of tokens, financial losses for users, and a significant loss of trust in the system. This could lead to the deployment of compromised contracts, which users may start using without realizing that the system has been compromised from the start and could cause severe financial loss for the entire protocol and all its users.

## Code Snippet

This vulnerability can be found here:
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-interest-rate-model/blob/main/protocol/contracts/periphery/EscrowedEXA.sol?plain=1#L43-L56
## Tool used
Manual Review

## Recommendation
Implement valid access control on the `initialize()` to ensure only the relevant deployer can initialize such as an `onlyOwner` modifier or automatically call `initialize` in your deploy function in your setup.