Witty Walnut Salmon

medium

# [M-4] `Auditor::initialize` can be frontrun due to lack of access control, allowing attackers to grant themselves admin role and manipulate the protocol in many different ways

## Summary
The initialize function in the `EscrowedExa::initialize` contract is vulnerable to frontrunning attacks due to lack of access control , allowing attackers to grant themselves admin control and set the liquidation incentive (liquidator and lenders) for the whole ecosystem.

## Vulnerability Detail
```javascript 
 function initialize(LiquidationIncentive memory liquidationIncentive_) external initializer {
    __AccessControl_init();

    _grantRole(DEFAULT_ADMIN_ROLE, msg.sender);

    setLiquidationIncentive(liquidationIncentive_);
  }
```

The code above can be found in `ExcrowedExa::initialize` and if exactly protocol deploys their contracts and does not identify that they have already been initialized, users could start using a system that was compromised from the start. 

If an attacker sees this transaction in the mempool, they can frontrun the transaction with a higher gas pay and call the `initialize` function before the owner. This would be possible because the `initialize` function is not protected against frontrunning in the transaction ordering sense. The `initializer` modifier in Solidity is specifically designed to ensure that a function marked with it can only be invoked once during the contract's initialization phase. The `initializer` modifier does not provide access control functionality.

Attackers could grant themselves admin role, and set the liquidation incentive (liquidators and lenders) for the whole ecosystem and enable any markets they want with the `enableMarket` function, can alter the adjust factor for a certain markets with the `setAdjustFactor` function, change the Chainlink Price Feed Aggregator source for markets with the `setPriceFeed()`

## Impact
Attackers could exploit the vulnerability to grant themselves admin control, potentially allowing them to manipulate the system to their advantage. This could lead to unauthorized withdrawals or transfers of funds from the contract, resulting in financial losses for users. Attackers whom give themselves the `admin` role can do the following:

`setLiquidationIncentive`: The attacker can adjust the liquidation incentive, which affects the rewards for liquidators and lenders. By changing this incentive, they can influence the behavior of liquidators and potentially manipulate liquidation events.

`enableMarke`t: By enabling or disabling markets, the attacker can manipulate which markets are available for trading, potentially favoring or disfavoring certain assets.

`setAdjustFactor`: The attacker can set the adjust factor for a market, which affects the calculation of collateralization ratios and liquidation thresholds. This could be used to manipulate the liquidation risk for specific assets.

`setPriceFeed`: The attacker can change the price feed source for a market, potentially using a manipulated or unreliable source to influence asset prices. This could lead to inaccurate collateral valuations and unfair liquidations.

In summary, an attacker taking control of the admin role through a front-running attack on the initialize function can significantly disrupt the protocol's operations and potentially manipulate markets, asset prices, and liquidation events to their advantage.

## Code Snippet

This `initialize` function vulnerability can be found here:
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-interest-rate-model/blob/main/protocol/contracts/Auditor.sol?plain=1#L53-L59

The `enableMarket` function can be found here:
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-interest-rate-model/blob/main/protocol/contracts/Auditor.sol?plain=1#L344-L367

The `setAdjustFactor` function can be found here:
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-interest-rate-model/blob/main/protocol/contracts/Auditor.sol?plain=1#L372-L377

The `setPriceFeed` function can be found here:
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-interest-rate-model/blob/main/protocol/contracts/Auditor.sol?plain=1#L382-L386

The `setLiquidationIncentive` function can be found here:
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-interest-rate-model/blob/main/protocol/contracts/Auditor.sol?plain=1#L390-L395

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
Implement valid access control on the `initialize()` to ensure only the relevant deployer can initialize such as an `onlyOwner` modifier or automatically call initialize in your deploy function in your setup.