Witty Walnut Salmon

high

# [H-2] `Market::initialize` function can be front-run due to lack of access control, allowing attackers to grant themselves admin role to drain funds and favor themselves

## Summary

The `initialize` function in the `Market.sol` contract is vulnerable to a frontrunning attack. An attacker can monitor the transaction pool for the `initialize` function call and frontrun it by calling the function with their own parameters before the protocol admin. This would allow the attacker to grant themselves admin privileges and gain unauthorized control over the protocol.

## Vulnerability Detail
```javascript
function initialize(
    string calldata assetSymbol,
    uint8 maxFuturePools_,
    uint128 earningsAccumulatorSmoothFactor_,
    InterestRateModel interestRateModel_,
    uint256 penaltyRate_,
    uint256 backupFeeRate_,
    uint128 reserveFactor_,
    uint256 dampSpeedUp_,
    uint256 dampSpeedDown_
  ) external initializer {
    __AccessControl_init();
    __Pausable_init();

    lastAccumulatorAccrual = uint32(block.timestamp);
    lastFloatingDebtUpdate = uint32(block.timestamp);
    lastAverageUpdate = uint32(block.timestamp);

    _grantRole(DEFAULT_ADMIN_ROLE, msg.sender);

    setAssetSymbol(assetSymbol);
    setMaxFuturePools(maxFuturePools_);
    setEarningsAccumulatorSmoothFactor(earningsAccumulatorSmoothFactor_);
    setInterestRateModel(interestRateModel_);
    setPenaltyRate(penaltyRate_);
    setBackupFeeRate(backupFeeRate_);
    setReserveFactor(reserveFactor_);
    setDampSpeed(dampSpeedUp_, dampSpeedDown_);
  }
```
Above is the `initialize` function in `Market.sol`

## Impact

An attacker can monitor the transaction pool for the `initialize` function call and frontrun it by submitting their own transaction with a higher gas price. The attacker's transaction would be executed first, allowing them to call the `initialize`  function with their own parameters and grant themselves the `DEFAULT_ADMIN_ROLE`.

If an attacker successfully frontruns the `initialize function`, they can gain admin privileges in the `Market.sol` contract. With admin privileges, the attacker can perform the following actions:

Call the `setAssetSymbol` function to change the name and symbol of the Market.
Call the `setMaxFuturePools` function to change the number of active pools at the same time.
Call the `setEarningsAccumulatorSmoothFactor` function to change the factor used when smoothly accruing earnings to the floating pool.
Call the `setInterestRateModel` function to change the interest rate model used to calculate rates.
Call the `setPenaltyRate` function to change the penalty rate per second.
Call the `setBackupFeeRate` function to change the rate charged to the fixed depositors that the floating pool suppliers will retain for initially providing liquidity.
Call the `setReserveFactor` function to change the percentage that represents the liquidity reserves that can't be borrowed.
Call the `setDampSpeed` function to change the damp speed used to update the floatingAssetsAverage.
Call the `setTreasury` function to change the address of the treasury that will receive the allocated earnings and the rate to be charged by the treasury to floating and fixed borrows.
Call the `pause` function to pause the contract whenever they want.
Call the `setFrozen` function to freeze the contract, preventing new borrows and deposits.

The attacker would have complete control over the protocol's functionality and could manipulate the contract's state to their advantage.

## Code Snippet

The `initialize` function in `Market.sol` can be found here:
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-interest-rate-model/blob/main/protocol/contracts/Market.sol?plain=1#L105-L133

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
Implement valid access control on the `initialize()` to ensure only the relevant deployer can initialize such as an `onlyOwner` modifier or automatically call `initialize()` in your deploy function in your setup.
