Expert Mossy Tarantula

medium

# [M-2] Frontrunning the initialize function can prevent upgrades due to insufficient access control

## Summary

The contract initialization function in the provided code snippet lacks appropriate access control, allowing any address to call it. This presents a significant security vulnerability, as unauthorized users could potentially exploit this function, leading to undesired consequences.

## Vulnerability Detail
The vulnerability lies in the initialize function, which is designed to initialize the contract. However, it lacks proper access control checks, such as only allowing the contract deployer or a specific set of addresses to call it. As a result, any external address can invoke this function, bypassing intended restrictions and potentially compromising the integrity ## Impact
The impact of this vulnerability can be severe. By allowing unauthorized parties to execute the initialization function, the contract's state could be manipulated, leading to loss of funds, unauthorized access to functionalities, or disruption of intended operations. This could undermine the trust and reliability of the entire system.


## Code Snippet
```javascript

/// @notice Initializes the contract.
/// @dev can only be called once.
function initialize(LiquidationIncentive memory liquidationIncentive_) external initializer {
  __AccessControl_init();

  _grantRole(DEFAULT_ADMIN_ROLE, msg.sender);

  setLiquidationIncentive(liquidationIncentive_);
}
```

## Tool used
Manual Review

## Recommendation:
To address this vulnerability and enhance the security of the contract, it is recommended to implement proper access control mechanisms within the initialize function. This can be achieved by incorporating a modifier or using role-based access control (RBAC) to restrict access to authorized addresses only.

## Reference 
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-interest-rate-model/blob/main/protocol/contracts/Auditor.sol#L53