Dapper Lead Salmon

high

# ERC4626 inflate attack

## Summary

Malicious users can perform an inflation attack against the vault to steal the assets of the victim.

## Vulnerability Detail

A malicious user can perform a donation to execute a classic first depositor/ERC4626 inflation Attack against a Exactly market. The general process of this attack is well-known, and a detailed explanation of this attack can be found in many of the resources such as the following:

- https://blog.openzeppelin.com/a-novel-defense-against-erc4626-inflation-attacks
- https://mixbytes.io/blog/overview-of-the-inflation-attack

Solmate `convertToShares` [function](https://github.com/transmissions11/solmate/blob/main/src/tokens/ERC4626.sol#L124C1-L128C6) follow the formula: 

    function convertToShares(uint256 assets) public view virtual returns (uint256) {
        uint256 supply = totalSupply; // Saves an extra SLOAD if totalSupply is non-zero.

        return supply == 0 ? assets : assets.mulDivDown(supply, totalAssets());
    }

The share price always return 1:1 with asset token. If everything work normally, share price will slowly increase with time to 1:2 or 1:10 as more rewards coming in.

But right after Market contract creation, during first cycle, any user can deposit 1 share set totalSupply = 1. And inflate totalAssets() before rewards kick in. (Basically, pretend rewards themselves before anyone can deposit in to get much better share price.)

This can inflate base share price as high as 1:1e18 early on, which force all subsequence deposit to use this share price as base.

However, in Exactly, there is a safeguards in place to mitigate this attack. The market tracks the number of collateral assets within the state variables. Thus, simply transferring assets to the market directly will not work, and the assets per share will remain the same. Thus, one would need to perform additional steps to workaround/bypass the existing controls.

To work around this, attacker can inflate `backupEarnings` to inflate `totalAssets`:

```solidity
  function totalAssets() public view override returns (uint256) {
    unchecked {
      uint256 backupEarnings = 0;
      uint256 latestMaturity = block.timestamp - (block.timestamp % FixedLib.INTERVAL); 
      uint256 maxMaturity = latestMaturity + maxFuturePools * FixedLib.INTERVAL;

      for (uint256 maturity = latestMaturity; maturity <= maxMaturity; maturity += FixedLib.INTERVAL) {
        FixedLib.Pool storage pool = fixedPools[maturity];
        uint256 lastAccrual = pool.lastAccrual;

        if (maturity > lastAccrual) {
          backupEarnings += block.timestamp < maturity
            ? pool.unassignedEarnings.mulDivDown(block.timestamp - lastAccrual, maturity - lastAccrual)
            : pool.unassignedEarnings;
        }
      }

      return
        floatingAssets +
        backupEarnings +
        accumulatedEarnings() +
        (totalFloatingBorrowAssets() - floatingDebt).mulWadDown(1e18 - treasuryFeeRate);
    }
  }
```

Attacker can inflate `backupEarnings` by sequently `depositAtMaturity` and `borrowAtMaturity`. Such operation will not trigger `depositToTreasury()` because `updateFloatingDebt()` will always return 0 at a no-debt market.

## Impact

Malicous users could steal the assets of the victim. Such attacker can also trigger a compound/aave-like empty market attack, where attackers can borrow tokens with the inflated shares.

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-interest-rate-model/blob/main/protocol/contracts/Market.sol#L925

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

A MIN_LIQUIDITY amount of shares needs to exist within the vault to guard against a common inflation attack.

A more robust approach to ensuring that there is always a minimum number of shares to guard against inflation attack is to mint a certain amount of shares to zero address (dead address) during contract deployment (similar to what has been implemented in Uniswap V2).
