Agreeable Lemonade Ostrich

medium

# Users Without `TRANSFERRER_ROLE` Still  Can Transfer `esEXA` Tokens

## Summary
- The `EscrowedEXA` contract contains a loophole that permits the unintended transfer of non-transferable `esEXA` tokens through the vesting and cancellation process
## Vulnerability Detail

- The `EscrowedEXA` smart contract is designed to allow only accounts with `TRANSFERRER_ROLE` to transfer `esEXA` tokens, which mentioned in the protocol documentation:

> "The esEXA tokens are only transferable for accounts with a TRANSFERRER_ROLE, reserved for the protocol contracts to integrate smoothly."

- However, there is a vulnerability in the contract that allows users to bypass this non-transferability. By creating a vesting stream with the [`vest`](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-interest-rate-model/blob/8f6ef1b0868d3ea3a98a5ab7e8b3a164857681d7/protocol/contracts/periphery/EscrowedEXA.sol#L89)  function and designating any recipient address, and then having the recipient cancel the vesting stream using the `cancel` function, `esEXA` tokens can be effectively transferred to the recipient. This is facilitated by the `cancle ` or `onStreamCanceled` function, which mints `esEXA` tokens back to the recipient upon cancellation.
- since stablier fees are set to `0` there is also no lost transfering tokens with this process.
- This loophole allows the transfer of `esEXA` tokens between users, circumventing the protocol's intention for `esEXA` to be non-transferable except by accounts with the specified role. The additional transfer of EXA tokens as a reserve in this process is not a significant concern if the sender and recipient are colluding or the same entity attempting to exploit the system.

## Impact

- since `esEXA` can also be used to vote, users could transfer esEXA to different addresses to cast multiple votes, inflating voting power and potentially swaying governance decisions.
- The transferability bypass compromises the intended reward and vesting mechanics.

## Code Snippet

The vulnerability is due to the interaction between these functions:

```js
function vest(uint128 amount, address to, uint256 maxRatio, uint256 maxPeriod) public returns (uint256 streamId) {
  // ... Vesting logic ...
  streamId = sablier.createWithDurations(
    // ...
    recipient: to,
    // ...
  );
  // ...
}

function cancel(uint256[] memory streamIds) external returns (uint256 streamsReserves) {
  // ... Cancellation logic ...
  sablier.cancel(streamId);
  // ...
}

function onStreamCanceled(uint256 streamId, address recipient, uint128 senderAmount, uint128) external {
  // ...
  _mint(recipient, senderAmount);
  // ...
}
```

A user can call vest with their esEXA tokens and specify the recipient's address:

```js
uint256 streamId = vest(amount, recipientAddress, maxRatio, maxPeriod);
```

The recipient can then call `cancel` (or `cancle` in stablier) to mint the `esEXA` tokens:

```js
cancel([streamId]);
```

- This sequence allows the transfer of `esEXA` tokens, circumventing the intended restrictions.

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
-  Modify the `vest` function to only allow the `msg.sender` to be the recipient of the vesting stream, and make the stream non-transferable : 
```diff
 sablier.createWithDurations(
      CreateWithDurations({
        asset: exa,
        sender: address(this),
        recipient: to,
        totalAmount: amount,
        cancelable: true,
-        transferable: true,
+        transferable: false,
        durations: Durations({ cliff: 0, total: vestingPeriod }),
        broker: Broker({ account: address(0), fee: 0 })
      })
```