Expert Mossy Tarantula

medium

# [M-01] Denial-of-Service (DoS)

## Summary
The Auditor contract was audited for potential Denial-of-Service (DoS) vulnerabilities. The audit aimed to identify any code patterns or implementation practices that could lead to excessive gas consumption or inefficient execution, thereby exposing the contract to DoS attacks.

## Vulnerability Detail
The `accountLiquidity` function iterates over each bit in the `marketMap `variable to determine which markets the account is participating in. This loop execution can lead to a potential DoS vulnerability if the account participates in a large number of markets or if the `marketList` array is very large.

## Impact
The potential DoS vulnerability in the `accountLiquidity` function could result in excessive gas consumption during loop execution. This could lead to increased transaction costs for users and expose the contract to DoS attacks by malicious actors.

## Code Snippet
```javascript
function accountLiquidity(
    address account,
    Market marketToSimulate,
    uint256 withdrawAmount
) public view returns (uint256 sumCollateral, uint256 sumDebtPlusEffects) {
    AccountLiquidity memory vars; // holds all our calculation results

    // for each asset the account is in
    uint256 marketMap = accountMarkets[account];
    for (uint256 i = 0; marketMap != 0; marketMap >>= 1) {
        if (marketMap & 1 != 0) {
            Market market = marketList[i];
            MarketData storage m = markets[market];
            uint256 baseUnit = 10 ** m.decimals;
            uint256 adjustFactor = m.adjustFactor;
            // Additional logic...
        }
        // Additional logic...
    }
}
```
## Tool used
Manual Review

## Recommendation
*Gas Efficiency*

    Implement gas-efficient data structures or algorithms to reduce gas consumption during loop execution.
    Consider limiting the number of markets an account can participate in to mitigate the risk of excessive gas consumption.

*Off-Chain or Batch Processing*

    Consider off-chain or batch processing for operations that involve large datasets to avoid high gas costs on-chain.

*Gas Limits and Gas Pricing*

    Set appropriate gas limits for contract functions to prevent DoS attacks by limiting the amount of gas that can be consumed per transaction.
    Use dynamic gas pricing strategies to adjust gas prices based on network congestion and prevent attackers from spamming the network with low-cost transactions.

##Reference
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-interest-rate-model/blob/main/protocol/contracts/Auditor.sol#L107