Generous Denim Perch

medium

# When Market is paused, users are unable to repay their borrow shares. During unpause, any repay trasactions can be front-runby liquidation bots

## Summary

When a market is paused users are unable to repay their borrow positions. This means depending on how long a market is paused users may get into the liquidation zone without being able to prevent it, however once a market is unpaused users will be unable to repay their loan before it is liquidated. Liquidation bots will be able to front-run any repay transactions from users. 

## Vulnerability Detail

In [Market.sol](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-interest-rate-model/blob/main/protocol/contracts/Market.sol#L1125-L1133) the `onlyPausingRoles` can pause the contract:
```solidity
  /// @notice Sets the pause state to true in case of emergency, triggered by an authorized account.
  function pause() external onlyPausingRoles {
    _pause();
  }

  /// @notice Sets the pause state to false when threat is gone, triggered by an authorized account.
  function unpause() external onlyRole(PAUSER_ROLE) {
    _unpause();
  }
```
This stops all interactions with the protocol, including borrowing and repaying borrows. This can cause issues with users becoming liquidatable during the pause. If the user wants to submit a transaction to repay their loan as soon as possible once the `unpause` transaction is in the mem pool, it can be easily front-run by bots. This will cause users to be unfaily liquidated without their own wrong-doing.

[Market::repay()](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-interest-rate-model/blob/main/protocol/contracts/Market.sol#L176-L183)
```solidity
  function repay(
    uint256 assets,
    address borrower
  ) external whenNotPaused returns (uint256 actualRepay, uint256 borrowShares) {
    (actualRepay, borrowShares) = noTransferRefund(previewRepay(assets), borrower);
    emitMarketUpdate();
    asset.safeTransferFrom(msg.sender, address(this), actualRepay);
  }
```

## Impact

Normal users can be unfairly liquidated if a market is paused and then unpaused, due to the fact that `repay` and other borrow paying off functions contain the `whenNotPaused` modifiers.

Even if users are aware of this and try to repay their loan as soon as the market is unpaused, they will be front-run by liquidation bots who will profit from liquidations. Usually users can repay their loan before becoming liquidatable, meaning there are no worries about front-running bots, however in this scenario it is likely to happen as there is profit to be made.

## Code Snippet

[Market.sol](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-interest-rate-model/blob/main/protocol/contracts/Market.sol#L1125-L1133)
[Market::repay()](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-interest-rate-model/blob/main/protocol/contracts/Market.sol#L176-L183)

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

Consider allowing users to repay their loans during pause. Potentially providing a seperate function with differed logic that is only callable during a market pause can help mitigate this risk, allowing users to perform repays when markets are paused.
