Witty Walnut Salmon

medium

# [M-7] `Market::spendAllowance` Lack of Maximum Approval Check Allows Over-Allowance Vulnerability (Missing Check + Fund Risk)

## Summary

The `Market.sol` contract does not explicitly revert or check for maximum approval amounts when updating token allowances. This missing check can lead to an over-allowance vulnerability, where a user can accidentally or maliciously approve an unlimited amount of tokens to a potential attacker, putting their funds at risk. When a user grants approval to a spender to transfer tokens on their behalf, not reverting on maximum approval (e.g., type(uint256).max) can expose the user's funds to risk if the spender's contract is malicious or compromised. If there is even 1 bug in this protocol, then an attacker can use this vulnerability of `Lack of Maximum Approval Check` as an entry point to attack other users or drain their funds.

## Vulnerability Detail
```javascript
function spendAllowance(address account, uint256 assets) internal {
    if (msg.sender != account) {
        uint256 allowed = allowance[account][msg.sender]; // saves gas for limited approvals.

        if (allowed != type(uint256).max) allowance[account][msg.sender] = allowed - previewWithdraw(assets);
    }
}
```
The function `spendAllowance` lacks a maximum Approval Check and allows an Over-Allowance Vulnerability

## Impact
Without reverting on maximum approval, a malicious or compromised spender contract can potentially drain ALL the tokens approved by the user. This can result in unauthorized transfer of funds and financial losses for the user. Funds can be indirectly compromised if a user inadvertently approves an unlimited allowance to a malicious entity. The attacker can then spend the user's tokens without their consent, potentially draining their balance. This vulnerability can lead to financial losses for the affected users and erode trust in the protocol.

## Code Snippet

The `spendAllowance` function can be found here: https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-interest-rate-model/blob/main/protocol/contracts/Market.sol?plain=1#L981-L987

## Tool used
Foundry
Manual Review

## Recommendation
To mitigate this vulnerability, include a check in the token contract to revert when the approval amount is set to the maximum value (type(uint256).max). 

