Crazy Pickle Bee

medium

# reserveFactor does not take effect in withdrawAtMaturity()

## Summary
Some reversed fund might be borrowed by fixed pool.

## Vulnerability Detail
In Market, there is one variable named `reserveFactor`. One part of floating asset needs to be reserved for floating withdraw. So if we want to increase floating Debt or fix debt, we need to make sure that `FloatingBackupBorrowed + floatingDebt > floatingAssets.mulWadDown(1e18 - reserveFactor)`. 

If depositors at one fixed pool withdraw in advance by calling withdrawAtMaturity(), this is another format of borrow, which can lead to `FloatingBackupBorrowed`'s increase. The increase of `FloatingBackupBorrowed` might break the reserve factor's design. If we think it's important to keep some active floating asset to accept possible floating withdraw, we should add related limitation in withdrawAtMaturity().

For example, in one market,
- Alice, as the floating pool depositor
- Bob, as the floating pool borrower
- Cathy, as the fixed pool depositor,
- David, as the fixed pool borrower
- The scenario is that the fixed deposit amount and the fix borrowing amount is balanced. Bob borrows lot of floating asset from floating pool, only `reserveFactor` part of floating asset is left.
- Cathy withdraw her asset by calling withdrawAtMaturity(), which forces floating pool to supply assets to Fixed rate pool borrower(David). This will cause the left funds is less than expected limitation `reserveFactor`
- Alice wants to withdraw some assets, might fail because of little asset left in contract.

```c
  function withdrawAtMaturity(
    uint256 maturity,
    uint256 positionAssets,
    uint256 minAssetsRequired,
    address receiver,
    address owner
  ) external whenNotPaused returns (uint256 assetsDiscounted) {
    if (positionAssets == 0) revert ZeroWithdraw();
    // reverts on failure
    FixedLib.checkPoolState(maturity, maxFuturePools, FixedLib.State.VALID, FixedLib.State.MATURED);

    FixedLib.Pool storage pool = fixedPools[maturity];
    floatingAssets += pool.accrueEarnings(maturity);

    FixedLib.Position memory position = fixedDepositPositions[maturity][owner];
    ...
    {
      // remove the supply from the fixed rate pool
      uint256 newFloatingBackupBorrowed = floatingBackupBorrowed +
        pool.withdraw(
          FixedLib.Position(position.principal, position.fee).scaleProportionally(positionAssets).principal
        );
      if (newFloatingBackupBorrowed + floatingDebt > floatingAssets) revert InsufficientProtocolLiquidity();
      floatingBackupBorrowed = newFloatingBackupBorrowed;
    }
    ...
```

## Impact
`reserveFactor` design might be broken, depositors in floating pool cannot withdraw assets in some cases.

## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-interest-rate-model/blob/main/protocol/contracts/Market.sol#L363-L437

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
In withdrawAtMaturity(), we should consider to add some similar limitation to protect potential floating pool withdraw.

