Shaggy Mint Liger

medium

# The `whenNotPaused` modifier would be attached on the repayment function in the Market contract, which may lead to an unfair liquidation for a borrower

## Summary
A borrower can **not** repay during the paused-state of the Market contract.
Hence, during the paused-state of the Market contract, the borrower's debt position can be moved from the healthy state to the liquidatable state.

Once the paused-state of the Market contract would be remove by the Market contract's owner, the borrower would attempt to repay by calling the repayment function to resume the liquidatable state of their debt position to the healthy state.
However, a liquidation bot (or a malicious actor) would monitor the TX of the `unpause()` by the Market contract's owner and the liquidation bot would **back-run** it with calling the Market#`liquidate()` to liquidate the borrower's liquidatable debt position.

Hence, the liquidation bot's TX for liquidation would be executed **before** the borrower's TX for repayment.
As a result, the borrower's TX for repayment will be reverted and the borrower lose their collateral.


## Vulnerability Detail
Within the following repayment functions in the Market contract, the `whenNotPaused` modifier would be attached to check whether or not the Market contract is paused like this:
- Market#`repay()`
- Market#`refund()`
- Market#`repayAtMaturity()`
   https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-interest-rate-model/blob/main/protocol/contracts/Market.sol#L179
   https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-interest-rate-model/blob/main/protocol/contracts/Market.sol#L193
   https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-interest-rate-model/blob/main/protocol/contracts/Market.sol#L450
```solidity
  function repay(
    uint256 assets,
    address borrower
  ) external whenNotPaused returns (uint256 actualRepay, uint256 borrowShares) {  ///<--------- 🟣@audit
    ...
```
```solidity
  function refund(
    uint256 borrowShares,
    address borrower
  ) external whenNotPaused returns (uint256 assets, uint256 actualShares) {   ///<--------- 🟣@audit
    ...
```
```solidity
  function repayAtMaturity(
    uint256 maturity,
    uint256 positionAssets,
    uint256 maxAssets,
    address borrower
  ) external whenNotPaused returns (uint256 actualRepayAssets) {  ///<--------- 🟣@audit
    ...
```

However, once the Market contract would be paused, a borrower can **not** repay their debt via the repayment functions above. 

And therefore, the borrower's debt position can be moved to the liquidatable state. After the paused-state of the Market contract would be removed (by the owner of the Market contract), the borrower would attempt to repay their debt via the repayment functions above to resume the liquidatable state of their debt position to the healthy state. 

However, a liquidation bot (or malicious actor) would monitor the TX of unpausing the paused-state of the Market contract (by the Market contract's owner) and the liquidation bot would **back-run** it with calling the Market#`liquidate()`. 
After that, the borrower would call a repayment function. But, since the borrower's debt position has **already** been liquidated by the liquidation bot, the borrower's TX of the repayment function will be reverted. And therefore, the borrower would lose the collateral. 


## Attack scenario
Let's say Paul is the owner of the Market contract and Alice is a borrower and she has an existing debt position:

- 1/ Paul would call the [`pause()`](https://docs.openzeppelin.com/contracts/2.x/api/lifecycle#Pausable-pause--) to pause the Market contract.

- 2/ Alice would like to repay their debt position. 
  - However, since the `whenNotPaused` modifier would be attached on all repayment functions in the Market contract, she need to wait for that the paused-state of the Market contract is removed (unpaused).

- 3/ During the paused-state of the Market contract, Alice's debt position would be moved to a liquidatable state.

- 4/ Paul would call the[ `unpause()`](https://docs.openzeppelin.com/contracts/2.x/api/lifecycle#Pausable-unpause--) to unpause the Market contract.

- 5/ A liquidation bot would observe the TX of the step 4/ and the liquidation bot would **back-run** it with calling the [Market#`liquidate()`](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-interest-rate-model/blob/main/protocol/contracts/Market.sol#L545-L614).
     
- 6/ Alice would also notice that the paused-state of the Market contract has been removed (unpaused). So, she would call either following repayment function to resume the liquidatable state of her debt position to the healthy state:
  - Market#`repay()`
  - Market#`refund()`
  - Market#`repayAtMaturity()`

- 7/ The Paul's TX (the step 4/) would be executed first.

- 8/ The liquidation bot's TX (the step 5/) would be executed second. 
  - At this point, the liquidation bot can seize the collateral of Alice's debt position-liquidated.  
   
- 9/ The Alice's TX (the step 6/) would be executed third.
  - Since the her debt position has **already** been liquidated by the liquidation bot when the step 8/, her TX of the repayment function will be reverted and therefore she would lose her collateral. 


## Impact
The `whenNotPaused` modifier would be attached on the repayment function in the Market contract, which may lead to an unfair liquidation for a borrower.


## Code Snippet
- https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-interest-rate-model/blob/main/protocol/contracts/Market.sol#L179
- https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-interest-rate-model/blob/main/protocol/contracts/Market.sol#L193
- https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-interest-rate-model/blob/main/protocol/contracts/Market.sol#L450


## Tool used
- Manual Review


## Recommendation
Within the Market contract, consider removing the `whenNotPaused` modifier from the following repayment functions:
  - Market#`repay()`
  - Market#`refund()`
  - Market#`repayAtMaturity()`
