Cool Bamboo Haddock

high

# The amount of debt users can actually borrow will be much less than expected

## Summary

The amount of debt users can actually borrow will be much less than expected due to both debt and collateral applying adjust factor

## Vulnerability Detail

Adjust factor is the ratio of asset could be used as collateral. According to exactly's documentation:

> exaVouchers can be used as collateral for a variable interest rate loan taken from the Variable Rate Pool. Each asset supported in our protocol has its own Risk-Adjust Factor, which represents the proportion of the asset value to be used as collateral. For example, if a user supplies 100 ETH as collateral, and the Risk-Adjust Factor for ETH is 50%, then that user can borrow a maximum of 50 ETH worth of any other asset in any Variable Rate Pool.

Source: https://docs.exact.ly/resources/white-paper#id-2.3-borrowing-assets-from-the-variable-rate-pool

The problem is that adjust factor is applied twice (both in calculating collateral value and debt value), leading to the actual ratio of collateral can be used as asset is much smaller than expected

- adjust factor is applied twice
```solidity
// sum all the collateral prices
    >>>    sumCollateral += vars.balance.mulDivDown(vars.price, baseUnit).mulWadDown(adjustFactor); //@audit: adjust factor is applied when calculating collateral

        // sum all the debt
>>>        sumDebtPlusEffects += vars.borrowBalance.mulDivUp(vars.price, baseUnit).divWadUp(adjustFactor); //@audit: adjust factor is also being applied when calculating debt

```
- compare collateral value and debt to decide if user could borrow
```solidity
if (collateral < debt) revert InsufficientAccountLiquidity();
```

Consider this scenario 
Expected: If an user supplies 100 ETH worth of collateral and adjust factor 50% (0.5),  user can borrow up to 50ETH debt.

Actual: 

1. Because adjust factor is applied, sumCollateral is 50
2. In order to be able to borrow, sumDebtPlusEffects needs to be lower or equal 50 => borrow balance (vars.borrowBalance.mulDivUp(vars.price, baseUnit)) has to be lower or equal 25 (50 * 0.5) 

So as a result, the user can only borrow 25 ETH debt instead of 50.
## Impact
- Users will be unable to borrow the expected amount of debt. 
- Healthy accounts might get liquidated because of this incorrect calculations. (adjust factor is also applied twice in liquidation check as well)
## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-interest-rate-model/blob/main/protocol/contracts/Auditor.sol#L129-L133

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-interest-rate-model/blob/main/protocol/contracts/Auditor.sol#L185

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-interest-rate-model/blob/main/protocol/contracts/Auditor.sol#L221-L227

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
Consider removing adjust factor in either collateral or debt calculation