Dazzling Goldenrod Goblin

medium

# The  Auditor, Market, and EXA contracts are lacking upgrade functionality due to an issue with the implementation process.

## Summary
According to [doc](https://docs.exact.ly/security/access-control#upgradeable-contracts) , `Auditor`, `Market` and `EXA` contracts are supposed to be upgradeable. But Unfortunately,  there is no proxy contracts like `UUPSUpgradeable`,  or `ERC1967UpgradeUpgradeableimplemented` implemented. Although openzeppelin upgradeable contracts are used but the main proxy logic contracts are not inherited, which leave the contracts completely unupgradeable.
## Vulnerability Detail
**Let's have a look at auditor contract**
```solidity
contract Auditor is Initializable, AccessControlUpgradeable {
}
```
Both the inherited contracts `initializable` and `accessControlUpgradeable` don't even have a single function that is able to upgrade the contract to new version like the `UUPSUpgradeable` and `ERC1967UpgradeUpgradeable` have.

What are those functions ?
- upgradeToAndCall(address)
- upgradeTo(address)

See that is what is missing in Your supposedly upgradeable contracts.

**Similarly `Market` and `EXA` contract :**

```solidity
contract Market is
    Initializable,
    AccessControlUpgradeable,
    PausableUpgradeable,
    ERC4626
{}
```

```solidity
contract EXA is ERC20VotesUpgradeable {}
```
Remember `ERC20VotesUpgradeable` doesn't inherit any proxy logic on its own, it is only designed to be upgrade compatible, it is your responsibility to implement upgrade logic in the Child contract.


## Impact
Protocol won't be able to upgrade Auditor , Market and EXA contracts, even though they were supposed to have upgrade functionality.

## Code Snippet
- `Auditor contract`
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-interest-rate-model/blob/main/protocol/contracts/Auditor.sol#L11
- `Market contract`
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-interest-rate-model/blob/main/protocol/contracts/Market.sol#L15
- `EXA contract`
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-interest-rate-model/blob/main/protocol/contracts/periphery/EXA.sol#L8



## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
- Maybe UUPSUpgradeable pattern is good  upgrading logic for you codebase. if you plan to implement that ,follow this fix

- Just import and inherit openzeppelin's UUPSUpgradeable.sol and you are good to go

**Here is an example for auditor contract**
```solidity
import "node_modules/@openzeppelin/contracts-upgradeable/proxy/utils/UUPSUpgradeable.sol";
contract Auditor is Initializable, AccessControlUpgradeable, UUPSUpgradeable {
}
```
- don't forget to override and implement `_authorizeUpgrade()` function to prevent unauthorized upgrades
- Kindly! remember to review other details about `UUPSUpgradeable` contract before applying the fix
