Big Chrome Manatee

medium

# Market.sol is not ERC4626 compliant leading to potential calculation problems and issues with future integrations

## Summary
Market.sol is not ERC4626 compliant leading to calculation problems and issues with future integrations. 
## Vulnerability Detail
The problem is specifically with ERC4626 `maxWithdraw` function which is implemented like that in the standard and it's not overridden in the protocol:
```solidity
    function maxWithdraw(address owner) public view virtual returns (uint256) {
        return convertToAssets(balanceOf[owner]);
    }
```
[According to the ERC4626 standard](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-4626#maxwithdraw), `maxWithdraw`:
- MUST factor in both global and user-specific limits, like if withdrawals are entirely disabled (even temporarily) it MUST return 0.

In the protocol, withdraw limits do exist and they are enforced by the following functions:
```solidity
  function beforeWithdraw(uint256 assets, uint256) internal override whenNotPaused {
//unrelated code
    
    // check if the underlying liquidity that the account wants to withdraw is borrowed
    if (floatingBackupBorrowed + floatingDebt > newFloatingAssets) 
      revert InsufficientProtocolLiquidity();
     }

  function withdraw(uint256 assets, address receiver, address owner) public override returns (uint256 shares) { 
      //Checks if the account has liquidity shortfall.
    //fail if the sender is not permitted to redeem all of their assets
    auditor.checkShortfall(this, owner, assets);
    
//unrelated code
```
As you can see, in the above conditions the user won't be able to withdraw their assets. Therefore, according to the standard and the expected behavior, `maxWithdraw` should return 0 in that case. However, the current implementation will return all of the user's assets which is incorrect. 

`maxWithdraw` is used in [handleBadDebt::L305-306](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-interest-rate-model/blob/main/protocol/contracts/Auditor.sol#L305-L306) and [calculateSeize::L291](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-interest-rate-model/blob/main/protocol/contracts/Auditor.sol#L291) and will always return the user's asset balance disregarding the protocol's withdraw limitations, potentially returning a higher value than intended. 

Additionally, this will lead to problems with future integrations as anyone who wants to integrate with the Exactly protocol will expect `maxWithdraw` to return the actual amount that can be withdrawn, taking into consideration the protocol's limitation, just like described in the ERC4626 standard.

And according to the contest's ReadMe, issues that will arise with future integrations are in scope:

> Should potential issues, like broken assumptions about function behavior, be reported if they could pose risks in future integrations, even if they might not be an issue in the context of the scope? If yes, can you elaborate on properties/invariants that should hold?
> Yes.

## Impact
Potential calculation problems with the current implementation and guaranteed issues with future integrations.
## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-interest-rate-model/blob/main/protocol/contracts/Auditor.sol#L305-L306
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-interest-rate-model/blob/main/protocol/contracts/Auditor.sol#L291
## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
Override the `maxWithdraw` function, account for the protocol's limits and return 0 in the cases the user won't be able to withdraw their assets