Bouncy Emerald Reindeer

medium

# Protocol only incentivizes backrunning of borrowAtMaturity with a depositAtMaturity call.

## Summary
In the current implementation, users are only incentivized to `depositAtMaturity` immediately after there was a `borrowAtMaturity` call.
But users who want to get this incentive can easily get frontrun.
Even when they were the first to send a `depositAtMaturity` transaction, they would get frontrun by users that sends the transaction with a higher gas fees.
On top of that, the victim (frontrunned user) won't be able to withdraw immediately else, they would have to pay an early withdrawal fee.

## Vulnerability Detail
There is no incentive for a user to normally depositAtMaturity to a maturity, unless it is done after a `borrowAtMaturities` that got supplied by floating pool.

This would lead to a condition where users are observing the mempool to depositAtMaturity immediately after a borrowAtMaturity

If a user who depositAtMaturity, with the aim of gaining the incentive, gets frontrunned by a mempool observer, he won't be able to withdraw until maturity or else, he would have to pay a fee.

This is not so fair because users don't have full control of what happens in the mempool.

## Impact
Users who `depositAtMaturity` with the aim of receiving the incentive, can get frontrun. Apart from losing the incentive they should have gotten, they would have to wait till maturity to withdraw their deposit. Else, they would pay a fee.

## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-interest-rate-model/blob/main/protocol/contracts/Market.sol#L247
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-interest-rate-model/blob/main/protocol/contracts/Market.sol#L265
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-interest-rate-model/blob/main/protocol/contracts/utils/FixedLib.sol#L25

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

All users that depositAtMaturity should be incentivized.
