Bouncy Emerald Reindeer

medium

# Vault depositors are getting incentivized whether of not a `borrowAtMaturity` call utilized funds from floating pool.

## Summary
Error in borrowAtMaturity logic: If a borrow requires supplies from floating pool, floating pool depositors get incentivized by borrow fee charged on borrower until someone depositAtMaturity.
And if the borrow never required supplies from floating pool, floating pool depositors still get incentivized

## Vulnerability Detail
In all functions that call pool.accrueEarnings, the backupEarnings is always added to floatingAssets:
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-interest-rate-model/blob/main/protocol/contracts/Market.sol#L245

If a borrowAtMaturity call is made and the supply of that maturity pool is less than the total borrows of the maturity pool, funds are gotten from the floating pool, and the interest charged on the borrow is paid to depositors in the floating pool(because their funds are being utilized).

If someone depositAtMaturity to that maturity pool, and the supplies of that maturity pool gets higher than the borrows of that pool, the interest stops getting paid to the depositors of the floating pool, and starts getting paid to the user that depositAtMaturity.

But the issue is: If pool.supplies>pool.borrows(which means that borrowAtMaturity did not require funds from the floating pool) in the first place, depositors in the floating pool are still getting paid the interest from the borrows of that maturity pool even though their funds are not being utilized.

So protocol is paying floatingPool depositors at the expense of maturity pool depositors.

## Impact
Floating pool depositors are getting paid the interest from maturity pools even when their funds are not being utilized. While the users whose funds are actually being utilized do not get paid.

But it can be inferred from other parts of the code that floating pool depositors should only be incentivized when their deposits are actually being utilized.

Hence, protocol is over-incentivizing users that did nothing(depositors whose funds are not being used), and under-incentivizing those whose funds are actually being used.

## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-interest-rate-model/blob/main/protocol/contracts/Market.sol#L245

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
There should be a way to split accrued interest between floatingpool depositors and maturity pool depositors based on the ratio of `amount that was borrowed from floatingpool` to `totalBorrows in that maturity`
If a borrowAtMaturity does not require funds from floating pool, interest should be paid to those whose funds are actually utilized(maturity pool depositors) and not the floating pool depositors.

