Sticky Myrtle Griffin

medium

# `account.fixedDeposit` and `account.fixedBorrows` states can be broken if the `maturity` variable overflows

## Summary

`account.fixedDeposit` and `account.fixedBorrows` states can be broken if the `maturity` variable overflows

## Vulnerability Detail

The `FixedLib.setMaturity` function is used by both the `Market.depositAtMaturity` and `Market.borrowAtMaturity` during depositing and borrowing certain amount at matuirty, respectively. 

In the `setMaturity` function the input variable `maturity` is passed into teh function execution. And the `least maturity` is stored in the `encoded maturity dates` (account.fixedDeposits, account.fixedBorrows) states. And the remaining maturities are stored in an encoded manner from 33rd - 256th bit positions of the `uint256` variable. 

But the issue here is that `maturity` variable passed onto the `setMaturity` function can overflow the `type(uint32).max` value and there is no check to prevent this in the `Market.depositAtMaturity` or `FixedLib.setMaturity` functions.

## Impact

As a result in the future the `encoded maturity dates map` could be corrupted due to the overflow of the `maturity` varible thus the `account.fixedDeposits` and `account.fixedBorrows` states could be broken (errorneous) due to corrupted encoding.

The following checks on the `maturity` variable in the `FixedLib.checkPoolState` and `FixedLib.setMaturity` function limit the overflow to 223 months till the `year 2106` when the `type(uint32).max` timestamp will overflow.

```solidity
    } else if (maturity > block.timestamp - (block.timestamp % INTERVAL) + (INTERVAL * maxPools)) {
      state = State.NOT_READY;
```

```solidity
    } else {
      uint256 range = (maturity - baseMaturity) / INTERVAL;
      if (range > 223) revert MaturityOverflow();
      return encoded | (1 << (32 + range));
    }
```

Hence this error will make the protocol broken after the year 2087 approximately. This issue is not the same as the commonly considered issue `2106` of timestamp with `uint32` declarations due to following reasons.

1. `2106 error` happens due to `overflow of uint32`, but this issue is prevalent due to a logic error prevalent due to how `maturity` variable is handled during encoding.

2. The protocol is designed operate till 2106 (effectively nother 80 years) due to use of `uint32` for its `timestamps`, but this issue takes `1/4 of valid duration out of the contention (approximately 18.5 years)`. Hence actual period this protocol can be used without an error is up until year 2087. Which reduces the available validity period of this protocol which is not a design decision.

This issue will further affect the `FixedLib.clearMaturity` function while calculating the `new base maturity date` due to overflow of the `base maturity date`, thus breaking the `account.fixedDeposits` and `account.fixedBorrows` states.

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-interest-rate-model/blob/main/protocol/contracts/utils/FixedLib.sol#L155-L172

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-interest-rate-model/blob/main/protocol/contracts/utils/FixedLib.sol#L213-L214

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-interest-rate-model/blob/main/protocol/contracts/utils/FixedLib.sol#L185-L194

## Tool used

Manual Review and VSCode

## Recommendation

Hence it is recommeded to check whether `maturity < type(uint32).max` before using the value to encode the `maturity dates of an account for deposits and borrows`. This check can be implemented in the `FixedLib.setMaturity` function. Else the `maturity varible` can be declared as `uint32` (instead of current `uint256 declaration`) and then prepend it with `0`s (to complete 256 bit length) before bitwise operations in the `FixedLib.setMaturity` function thus not allowing `maturity variable to overflow type(uint32).max`.
