Uneven Chocolate Okapi

medium

# Inconsistent Role Check for Token Transfer in EscrowedEXA Contract

## Summary

The current implementation of the `EscrowedEXA` contract does not align with the documented behavior. The documentation states that both the sender and receiver are required to hold the `TRANSFERER_ROLE` for a token transfer to occur. However, the contract code seems to mistakenly require that either the sender or receiver has the `TRANSFERER_ROLE`.

## Vulnerability Detail

In the contract code, the line 

```solidity
if (!hasRole(TRANSFERRER_ROLE, from) && !hasRole(TRANSFERRER_ROLE, to)) revert Untransferable();
```

 checks if neither the sender (from) nor the receiver (to) has the TRANSFERER_ROLE. If neither has the role, the transaction is reverted. This allows for a transaction where only one party has the `TRANSFERER_ROLE`, which contradicts the spec in the documentation described in the following [link](https://docs.exact.ly/governance/exactly-token-exa/escrowedexa-esexa) which says: 

 ```solidity
  The esEXA tokens are only transferable for accounts with a TRANSFERER_ROLE, reserved for the protocol contracts to integrate smoothly.
 ```


## Impact

The current implementation allows for a logically inconsistent scenario where a sender without the `TRANSFERER_ROLE` can transfer tokens to a receiver that does have the `TRANSFERER_ROLE`. This contradicts the intended behavior as per the documentation and the inherent logic of a transfer operation.

In a typical transfer operation, the sender should have the necessary permissions (in this case, the `TRANSFERER_ROLE`) to initiate the transfer. Allowing a sender without the `TRANSFERER_ROLE` to transfer tokens because the receiver has the `TRANSFERER_ROLE` could lead to unauthorized or unintended transfers.

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-interest-rate-model/blob/main/protocol/contracts/periphery/EscrowedEXA.sol#L60

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

To align the contract behavior with the documentation, the condition should be modified to ensure that both the sender and receiver have the `TRANSFERER_ROLE`. The code should be updated to: 

```solidity 
if (!hasRole(TRANSFERRER_ROLE, from) || !hasRole(TRANSFERRER_ROLE, to)) revert Untransferable();
```

This change will ensure that both parties must have the `TRANSFERER_ROLE` for a transaction to proceed, as per the documentation.
