Acrobatic Shadow Narwhal

medium

# Vault Inflation Attack is present in `Market`

## Summary

Malicious users can perform an inflation attack against the vault to steal the assets of the victim.

## Vulnerability Detail

A malicious user can perform a donation to execute a classic first depositor/ERC4626 inflation Attack against the vault. The general process of this attack is well-known, and a detailed explanation of this attack can be found in many of the resources such as the following:

OZ: https://blog.openzeppelin.com/a-novel-defense-against-erc4626-inflation-attacks
MixBytes: https://mixbytes.io/blog/overview-of-the-inflation-attack

In short, to kick-start the attack, the malicious user will often usually mint the smallest possible amount of shares (e.g., 1 wei) and then donate significant assets to the vault to inflate the number of assets per share. Subsequently, it will cause a rounding error when other users deposit.

Since `depositAtMaturity` and the `deposit` function inherited by ERC4626 do not even have any minimum deposit limitation and `Market` vault also do not use common practice methods such as minting certain amount of shares to 0 address or adding buffers, it becomes vulnerable to inflation attack.

Allows minting the smallest possible amount of shares (e.g., 1 wei);

```solidity
    function deposit(uint256 assets, address receiver) public virtual returns (uint256) {
        uint256 maxAssets = maxDeposit(receiver);
        if (assets > maxAssets) {
            revert ERC4626ExceededMaxDeposit(receiver, assets, maxAssets);
        }

        uint256 shares = previewDeposit(assets);
        _deposit(_msgSender(), receiver, assets, shares);

        return shares;
    }
```

## Impact

Malicous users could steal the assets of the victim.

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-interest-rate-model/blob/main/protocol/contracts/Market.sol#L15
https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/blob/master/contracts/token/ERC20/extensions/ERC4626.sol#L171

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

A `minimum deposit` amount of shares needs to exist within the vault to guard against a common inflation attack. However, a more robust approach to ensuring that there is always a minimum number of shares to guard against inflation attack is to mint a certain amount of shares to zero address (dead address) during contract deployment (similar to what has been implemented in Uniswap V2).




